# pVACcompare
pVACcompare is a file comparison suite built for comparing results generated by [pVACtools](https://github.com/griffithlab/pVACtools). Comparison can be specified for MHC Class I results, MHC Class II results, or both. In its current state the following files are included in the comparison:
- log/inputs.yml
- all_epitopes.tsv
- all_epitopes.aggregated.tsv
- all_epitopes.aggregated.tsv.reference_matches
- all_epitopes.aggregated.metrics.json (inputs only)
---
## Installation
pVACcompare is written for Linux, other operating systems have not been tested. pVACcompare requires Python 3.10 or above. Older versions may work, but have not been tested.
### Dependencies
The following packages need to be installed to run pVACcompare:
- deepdiff, yaml, pandas, numpy
---
## Usage
pVACcompare offers several parameters that allow the user to have control of the comparisons.
Running the following in the terminal will display the help menu with all of the available parameters and options:
```
python3 run.py -h
An example of running the tool likes like the following:
```
python3 run.py --mhc_class 1 --aggregated_columns 'Best Peptide', 'Best Transcript' version1/result version2/result differences
Note: All columns specified must be in quotes and comma separated
The above command will compare MHC Class I results only with the specified columns included in the aggregated tsv comparison. Columns for the unaggregated tsv comparison and reference match tsv comparison were not specified, so the default columns will be used. The report will be generated in a differences_MHC_Class_I.tsv file.